[DRAFT - do not merge] Contribution guide (#405)
OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs: arbitrum-docs/partials/_contribute-docs-partial.md

import PublicPreviewBannerPartial from '../partials/_public-preview-banner-partial.md'; 

:::tip Submitting a docs PR?

**Please review this guidance before issuing pull requests** into the [Arbitrum docs repository](https://developer.arbitrum.io/). This guidance helps us **streamline** and **scale** our efforts. Thank you!

:::

<PublicPreviewBannerPartial />

> The [`developer.arbitrum.io`](https://developer.arbitrum.io/) docs portal is the **single source of truth** for documentation that supports Offchain's product portfolio. This includes documentation for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`docs.arbitrum.io`](https://docs.arbitrum.io/) docs portal is the **single source of truth** for documentation that supports Offchain Labs' product portfolio. This includes documentation for:
```

Subdomain has changed since yesterday I think 😄 
Also, noticed that we use "Offchain Labs" throughout the whole document except here.

1. [Building dApps](/quickstart-solidity-hardhat) with Arbitrum’s chains.
2. [Bridging tokens](../getting-started-users.mdx) to Arbitrum’s chains.
3. [Running an Arbitrum node](../node-running/quickstart-running-a-node.md).
4. [Launching a self-managed chain](../launch-orbit-chain/orbit-quickstart.md) using Arbitrum Orbit.
5. [Educational materials](../intro) that explain how these technologies work.

> Contributions to each of these content areas are welcome from the entire Ethereum community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Contributions to each of these content areas are welcome from the entire Arbitrum community.
```

Not sure if you intended to specify Ethereum here for a reason, but flaggin just in case.

Author: Ethereum was intentional :). We're an extension of that community, in my mind, and want to invite participation from "root and all".

This document provides an overview of the **protocols** and **content conventions** that we use to craft, organize, and publish documentation. Familiarity with [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) syntax, Github, and [Docusaurus](https://docusaurus.io/docs) is expected.

## Protocols

> Just as Arbitrum and Ethereum nodes follow a peer-to-peer protocol, Arbitrum’s content contributors are encouraged to adopt one of the following content collaboration protocols:

Reviewer: Actually, Arbitrum nodes don't follow a peer-to-peer protocol, only Ethereum 😅

### "Core docs" protocol

**Core docs** are documents that help readers use Arbitrum products directly. If a document isn't in a `Third-party content` folder in the sidebar, it's a core document.

> Although Offchain Labs is responsible for producing and maintaining core docs, contributions are welcome from all. To contribute a new core doc:

Reviewer: We specify here how to contribute with a PR, but we should maybe include instructions to contribute via Issues, in case someone sees something that should be fixed (typos, outdated information, broken functionality, ...) but don't have the knowledge to create a PR to fix it.

 1. Begin by creating a branch of the [Arbitrum docs repo](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs).
 2. Issue a `Draft` pull request from your branch into `master`. Pull requests into `master` generate a preview of your changes via a branch-specific Docusaurus deployment; this preview will update as you push commits to your remote branch.

>  3. Include answers to the following questions in your PR description:

Reviewer: We can turn this into a [PR template](https://docs.github.com/en/communities/using-templates-to-encourage-useful-issues-and-pull-requests/creating-a-pull-request-template-for-your-repository) for contributions. [This repo](https://github.com/ethereum/ethereum-org-website) has good examples.

Also for issues, we might want to identify several types of issues that contributors might open and create templates for them.

      1. **Content ownership**: As the author, you retain ownership of and responsibility for the content you contribute. You're free to use your content in any way you see fit outside of Arbitrum's docs. Remember that when contributing content to our documentation, you must ensure you have the necessary rights to do so, and that the content doesn't infringe on the intellectual property rights of others.
      2. **License for use**: By contributing your content to our documentation, you grant Offchain Labs a non-exclusive, royalty-free license to use, reproduce, adapt, translate, distribute, and display the content in our documentation. This allows us to integrate your content into our docs and make it available to all users.
      3. **Right to modify or remove**: Offchain Labs reserves the right to modify or remove third-party content from our documentation at any time. This might be necessary due to a range of reasons, such as content becoming outdated, receiving very low pageviews over an extended period, or misalignment with our guidelines or goals.

## Content conventions

> Offchain Labs supports [Arbitrum docs](/) and [Prysm docs](https://docs.prylabs.network/docs/getting-started). The following **content conventions** help us maintain consistency across these documentation sets:

Reviewer: Should we add the governance docs here too? (Not sure)

Author: Negative - this was removed in the most recent edit in response to internal feedback. We'd have to block this on legal review if we explicitly associate this process/policy with the DAO docs.

 - The sidebar structure that you see in our published docs is determined by the [`sidebars.js` file](https://github.com/OffchainLabs/arbitrum-docs/blob/master/website/sidebars.js) located at the root of the `website` directory.
   - You may notice that our sidebars are currently organized using plain-old objects that specify individual files and folders.
   - We're moving away from this "manual configuration" and towards convention-based [auto-generated sidebars](https://docusaurus.io/docs/sidebar/autogenerated).
   - To ensure that this new approach works with your docs, **all net-new content should be organized within a folder structure that matches the desired sidebar structure**.

<br/>

## Frequently asked questions

#### Can I point to my product from core docs? For example - if my product hosts a public RPC endpoint, can I add it to your [RPC endpoints and providers](/node-running/node-providers) page?

These types of contributions are generally **not merged** unless they're submitted by employees of Offchain Labs.

> Instead of opening a PR for this type of contribution, click the `Request an update` button at the top of the published document to create an issue. Generally, third-party services are included in core docs only if we can confidently assert that the services are "**trustworthy, highly relevant to the core document at hand, and battle-tested by Arbitrum developers**" under a reasonable amount of scrutiny.

Reviewer: > services are "**trustworthy, highly relevant to the core document at hand, and battle-tested by Arbitrum developers**"

Also, something like "highly relevant to the Arbitrum ecosystem" or something like that? In the sense that tools to include in the core docs must be tools that have proved to bring a lot of value to the ecosystem. Not 100% sure.

Author: IMO "core document at hand" is guaranteed to be "highly relevant to the Arbitrum ecosystem" - I'd say let's not block on this; we can clarify in response to demand for clarification from our readers.
